From: Eric VanIderstine
Sent: Tuesday, August 22, 2006 10:50 AM
To: cosmond@enidine.com
Cc: Eric VanIderstine
Subject: MEI drop tower application

Attachments: MEI DROP TOWER-iso.PDF; MEI DROP TOWER-front.PDF

Chris, I have an application that I would like to see if a shock absorber would be a suitable fit.  The application is a drop tower used for specialized testing.  I have attached pdf files of the basic tower.  The maximum drop height is 68” inches.  Currently no tests are being considered for the maximum height.

 

The carriage weight is 7 lb, total carriage + specimen weight are not expected to exceed 20 lb.

 

The purpose of the apparatus is to evaluate specimen performance under various acceleration levels and durations.  As a result, a device or method for providing repeatable and selectable acceleration curves is desired.  A single device or method is not mandatory, change-out of components to suit the desired test is acceptable, as long as repeatable performance is achieved.  I have performed a few instrumented tests using shock absorbers and there appears to be high frequency sinusoidal data in the shock pulse.  I will forward data recorded from the shock absorber drop as well as data from an elastomeric pad.  The preferable shock pulse would be trapezoidal or an inverted v.

 

Specifications:

Impact velocity : 0 - 225 in/sec – current testing will occur at approximately 75 in/sec.

# cycles/hour : flexible, but 20/hour is desirable

Total drop weight : 20 lb (max) – current test weight 10 lb

Desired deceleration levels of 25-500g

 

 

McSwain Engineering, Inc. is a consulting company that performs failure analysis and engineering investigations.

 

I have nearly 10 years background in the custom machinery industry, and have been using shock absorbers (including Enidine) throughout that time on various pieces of equipment.

Project time line is immediate, drop tower is in use and decelerations alternatives are being explored.

 

Thanks in advance for your attention to this, if I can be of assistance, please do not hesitate to contact me.  If any further information is needed, please reply or call.

 

Eric L. Van Iderstine P.E.

McSwain Engineering, Inc.

www.mcswain-eng.com

(850) 484-0506
